Welcome back to the last video.
We started working on a histogram.
Let's jump back into it and get our range input working along the way.
We'll dig into the threshold and Tick's methods a bit more.
Here are a couple of links to the current state of the project.
You may remember that last time we created an X Stael to help us make our histogram.
In doing so the number of bins increased because we passed X scale ticks into the threshold method of
our histogram generator.
Let's take a deeper look at the thresholds and ticks methods before adding any new features to our visualization.
The thresholds method can take in different types of inputs.
If you know exactly how you want to separate your data.
One option is to pass in an array of values that will be used to set the end points for each bin.
That's what we've done with scaled up ticks.
But you can also pass in any other array of values to create the thresholds.
Here's an example of how it would look with thresholds in every 90000 versus if you don't know how you
want to put your data into bins.
But you know that you want more or fewer bids than the default.
You can also pass a single number into thresholds if you do this D-3 will try to create uniformly sized
bins based on the number you've provided the number of bins it makes will be roughly the same as the
value you pass in.
But there's no guarantee you'll get exactly that and any with our current data set for example if I
and the number five I'll get exactly 5 bins.
But if I pass an 8 I'll still only get 5 bins.
Here's a breakdown of how many bins I'll get for different values passed into the thresholds method.
Basically when you pass a number the thresholds D-3 will do its best to accommodate you but there's
no guarantee you'll get the exact number of thresholds you've requested.
If you need an exact count use an array and not a single number that ticks method on a scale behaves
in a similar way in that you can pass a number to specify how many values from the scales domain you'd
like to receive as intermediate values D-3 will do its best to accommodate you but you're not guaranteed
to get the exact number of values you've specified per example.
You can see that when I call ticks on the scale and passing 5 I get an array with six elements but the
same is true.
If I pass an 8 OK let's move on to the next important piece of functionality being able to adjust the
year to start in our age TNL I'll create a tad for the range input and give it a step size of 1 in my
javascript file.
I'll first remove this bar with variable since I no longer need it.
Next I'll calculate the maximum year using D-3 x.
After that I'll then use the min and max year from the birth data to set a min max an initial value
for our range input.
Now let's add an event listener to our input on input events.
I want to grab the new year and then update the histogram accordingly.
But since the number of bins I'll have may change on me to use the general update pattern to update
the graph first I'll filter my data set by the new year.
Then I need to update the domain of my X scale based on this new data once I've updated my scale.
I can update the histogram generator and in turn I can then update the bins once I've done that I can
then update the widescale next.
I can grab the update selection and begin to update the Grath Let's review the general update pattern.
First we can remove any elements in the exit selection next for any Enter nodes will need to append
a new group into each new group will need to append a rectangle in the text element because I need to
append twice.
I'm storing my entire selection in a variable called G.
Finally we need to merge our entire selection with our update selection and update the rectangle and
the text for each bar the attributes that we're updating will be the same as the ones when we initially
created the histogram.
In fact there is a fair amount of code duplication here in the exercises you'll learn about one pattern
you can use to clean up this code.
If we save our file and refresh the page we can see that the range input works well almost.
There is one small bug when your throw is an error to the console because the last bar has a negative
wait.
This is happening because the last threshold is very close to the maximum value of the dataset for that
year.
Also the text label for this last bar is getting cut off.
There are a few ways to fix this problem for now.
I'll give the SPG a little bit of padding in the x direction so that the text labels don't get cropped.
Also take a little more care with the width.
If the width calculate inside of this all back is negative or return 0 let's save and refresh as you
can see this fixes the error.
This is as far as will go when it comes to histograms.
Try to complete the histogram exercise when you're finished.
We'll move on and use D-3 to create another common visualization.
A pie chart.